participating
-------------------

This page explains how to contribute data to a running ghini site.

your account
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You need an account for the site, enabled, and to be part of the staff.  You do not need
superpowers to contribute data.

.. image:: images/participate-20190722113813.png           

When logged in as staff member, you will see the *Insert* menu next to the Ghini icon,
before the *Tools* menu, and right-clicking on any results row will show the context menu
associated to the row type.

.. image:: images/participate-20190722114427.png

If you do not see these, you are being handled by the software as a visitor, and you need to
logout and log back in with your full permissions.

organize your pictures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The software requires that you organize your plant images by physical plant, and by
accession.  Please make sure your data follows this order before you start.

A running definition of a database accession for plants photographed in the wild, it is a
group of nearby plants, clearly of the same species and variety, very likely of the same
age, and clearly belonging to the same population.  Decide for yourself if you want to use
the term accession as a synonym for population.

A running definition of a database plant for the same case, that would be a group of plants
within the same accession, difficult to separate from one another.  They all share the same
geographic coordinates, and you can provide a reasonable estimate of the number of
individual plants composing the group.

bulk inserts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have a large amount of accessions that you want to document with plant images, you
may request a bulk insertion.  Please write a friendly email to ``<ghini@anche.no>``,
stating your needs.  It makes sense if you have more than, say, twenty accessions.

adding images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The basic logic is: first have all your accessions in place, either do this manually, or
request a bulk insertion, then navigate to `the URL for adding plant images
<https://almaghreb.ghini.me/admin/garden/plantimage/add/>`_.

The first picture for a plant group for an accession, you need to add the plant database
object.  You do so by clicking on the ``+`` button next to the plant chooser widget.

.. image:: images/participate-20190722120634.png

This will open a new window, and you can choose your accession there, please keep track of
the plant code, it should be a sequential number, select or add a plant location (it would
be the name of the area for your observations), provide an estimate of the amount of
individual plants in the plant group, and click on the approximate spot in the map.  Zoom in
or zoom out as necessary.  And Save.

Back to your Plant Image insertion window, browse to your image, confirm by ``save`` or
``save and add another``.

